1) What are the benefits of using CSS?
Cascading sheet not only simplifies website development, but also simplifies the maintenance as a change of one line of code affects the whole web site and maintenance time.
   
2) What are the disadvantages of CSS?
Cross-browser issues: The code for a website needs to be compatible with a variety of browsers while being developed. Even though popular browsers like Chrome, Mozilla, Safari, and Firefox are widely used, this does not guarantee that other users will use the same one. Testing is therefore done before the website goes live to check for compatibility. CSS has a number of drawbacks that require a lot of time, such as cross-browser compatibility.

3) What is the difference between CSS2 and CSS3?
CSS3 is split into many various documents known as Modules. each module adds new capability or extends options outlined in CSS2 over conserving backward compatibility. Work on CSS3 started around the time of publication of the initial CSS2 recommendation.The CSS3 version supports more browsers than CSS2.

4) Name a few CSS style components?
Selecter:HTML element name, id name, class name. Property:It's like an attribute such as background color,font-size,position,text-align,color,border etc.
    

5) What do you understand by CSS opacity?
The opacity property sets the opacity level for an element. The opacity-level describes the transparency-level,where 1 is not transparent at all, 0.5 is 50% see-through, and 0 is completely transparent. opacity 0.2. opacity 0.5.

6) How can the background color of an element be changed?
In CSS, we use the background-color property to specify the background color of an element.

7) How can image repetition of the backup be controlled?
The background-repeat property in CSS is used to repeat the background image both horizontally and vertically. It also decides whether the background image will be repeated or not.

8) What is the use of the background-position property?
The background-position property in CSS is mainly used to sets the initial position for the background image ie.,it is used to set an image at a certain position. The position that is relative to the positioning layer, can be set by using the background-origin property.

9) Which property controls the image scroll in the background?
To set the scrolling of an image in the background, use the background-attachment property.

10) Why should background and color be used as separate properties?
The background property is a complex property in CSS, and if it is combined with color, the complexity will further increase. Color is an inherited property while the background is not. So this can make confusion further.
  
11) How to center block elements using CSS1?
By setting the properties margin-left and margin-right to auto and width to some explicit value

12) How to maintain the CSS specifications?
The CSS specifications are maintained by the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C).

13) What are the ways to integrate CSS as a web page?
There are three ways you can use to implement CSS into your HTML: internal, external, and inline styles.

14) What is embedded style sheets?
Embedded styles are located in the header of a page, and apply to that entire page. This is done by embedding the <style></style> tags containing the CSS properties in the head of your document.

15) What are the external style sheets?
An external style sheet is a separate text file that each page in the web site can link to it in order to receive it's instructions.

16) What are the advantages and disadvantages of using external style sheets?
With the help of External Style Sheets, the styles of numerous documents can be organized from one single file.In External Style Sheets, Classes can be made for use on numerous HTML element types in many forms of the site.

17) What is the meaning of the CSS selector?
CSS selectors are used to select the content you want to style. Selectors are the part of CSS rule set. CSS selectors select HTML elements according to its id, class, type, attribute etc.

18) What are the media types allowed by CSS?
All: Suitable for all devices.

19) What is the rule set?
Each (valid) declaration block is preceded by one or more comma-separated selectors, which are conditions selecting some elements of the page. A selector group and an associated declarations block, together, are called a ruleset, or often a rule.